So, let's consider the data, the library
using r, and then the father.son data.
And I'm, just to make my life a little
bit easier, I'm going to define x here,
as the son's heights, just so I don't
have to keep referring to the data frame.
Let's let n be the number of observations.
And then I'm going to do
10,000 boot strap resamples.
So what I'm going to do now,
is the sample command.
So when I say sample x,
that means draw from x,
n times b numbers of resamples.
Where in every case when I,
because I put replace equals true,
every time I take an observation,
I take a son's height out of the bag.
I put it back in okay.
So what is this?
This is simulating from an empirical
distribution defined by our data
that puts probability 1 over n
on each observed data point.
This is called the empirical.
Distribution.
And then I'm going to arrange these in
a matrix with number of bootstrap rows and
number of sample sizes columns.
And so what that means is, every row of
this matrix that I'm calling resamples
is now a completely resampled data
set where I took my original data.
And I drew a sample of size n with
replacement from that dataset.
And that's exactly equivalent to
regenerating a sample of size n from
a distribution that places probability
of 1 over n on each observed data point.
And then let's suppose the statistic
I'm interested in is the median.
And so I'm going to take for
each of these data sets,
each of these resampled data sets,
and I'm going to apply the median, and
that's what this final
apply statement does.
So here's a density estimate
from the resample of medians.
I've drawn a vertical line for
our observed median.
So what we've done in this case
is we've taken our vector of sun's
heights and we've repeatedly drawn
from those collection of sun's heights
a new data set of the same length.
Where we drew with replacement with equal
probability on every observed data point.
Then for each one of these new data
sets we calculated the median,
we did that 10,000 times, and
we got a collection of medians.
What this density estimate is,
is an estimate
of the distribution of
medians where we don't
know the actual population distribution
we're estimating from our observed.
Data.
This is the central quantity
used in bootstrapping.
For example, in the case, we're
bootstrapping the median, and we might
want to do something like take the
standard deviation of this distribution,
and that is going to be an estimate of
the standard error of the median, right?
The standard deviation of the sampling
distribution of the median.
We could do for example, quantiles to
get confidence interval estimates, and
these are the sorts of things that you do
with your bootstrap resample distribution.
So let's go through a couple
of the principles and
just rediscuss broot,
bootstrapping generally, and
then we'll work through this
example a little bit more.